Add Ingress-NGINX Controller migration document (#4505)
nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress: docs/content/installation/migration/ingress-nginx.md

---
title: "Migrating from Ingress-NGINX Controller to NGINX Ingress Controller"
date: 2023-09-29T16:31:21+01:00
description: "This document describes how to migrate from the community-maintained Ingress-NGINX Controller to the F5 NGINX Ingress Controller."
weight: 100
toc: true
tags: [ "docs" ]
docs: "DOCS-000"
categories: ["installation", "platform management"]
doctypes: ["tutorial"]
journeys: ["getting started"]
personas: ["devops"]
authors: ["Jason Williams"]
---

<br>

## Overview

> This page explains two different ways to migrate from the community-maintained [Ingress-NGINX Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) project to the NGINX Ingress Controller: using NGINX's Ingress Resources or with Kubernetes's built-in Ingress Resources. This is typically because of implementation differences, and to take advantage of features such as [NGINX Plus integration]({{<relref "overview/nginx-plus">}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains two different ways to migrate from the community-maintained [Ingress-NGINX Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) project to NGINX Ingress Controller: using NGINX's Ingress Resources or with Kubernetes's built-in Ingress Resources. This is typically because of implementation differences, and to take advantage of features such as [NGINX Plus integration]({{<relref "overview/nginx-plus">}}).
```

Reviewer: We don't use articles with product names.

> This page explains two different ways to migrate from the community-maintained [Ingress-NGINX Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) project to the NGINX Ingress Controller: using NGINX's Ingress Resources or with Kubernetes's built-in Ingress Resources. This is typically because of implementation differences, and to take advantage of features such as [NGINX Plus integration]({{<relref "overview/nginx-plus">}}). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document provides instructions for migrating from the community-maintained [Ingress-NGINX Controller](https://github.com/kubernetes/ingress-nginx) project to the NGINX Ingress Controller. You can do so by using NGINX's Ingress Resources or Kubernetes' built-in Ingress Resources. 

Migrating to NGINX's ingress controller implementation makes it possible to take advantage of [NGINX Plus]({{<relref "overview/nginx-plus">}}) features that are not available in the community ingress controller. 
```

<!-- To understand the differences, you may wish to read [Which Ingress Controller Do I Need?]({{<relref "overview/controller-comparison">}}). -->

The information in this guide is extracted from a free eBook called "_Kubernetes Ingress Controller Deployment and Security with NGINX_", which can be downloaded from the [NGINX Library](https://www.nginx.com/resources/library/kubernetes-ingress-controller-deployment-security-nginx/).

## Before You Begin

To complete the instructions in this guide, you need the following:

> - A working knowledge of [Ingress Controllers]({{<relref "glossary/ingress-controller">}}).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A working knowledge of [Ingress Controllers]({{<relref "glossary.m,d#ingress-controller">}}).
```

> - A working knowledge of [Ingress Controllers]({{<relref "glossary.md#ingress-controller">}}).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A working knowledge of [Ingress Controllers]({{<relref "glossary.md#ingress-controller-ingress-controller">}}).
```

- An [NGINX Ingress Controller installation]({{<relref "installation/installing-nic">}}) on the same host as an existing Ingress-NGINX Controller.

> There are two primary paths for migrating between the community Ingress-NGINX Controller to NGINX Ingress Controller: through the use of the NGINX Ingress Resources or the Kubernetes Ingress Resources.

Reviewer: Format as a bullet list to make the paths more apparent.

## Migration with NGINX Ingress Resources
This path uses Kubernetes Ingress Resources to set root permissions, then NGINX Ingress Resources for configuration using custom resource definitions (CRDs):

> * [VirtualServer and VirtualServerRoute]({{<relref "configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources">}})

Reviewer: Use `-` for bulleted lists. That's been our standard for the most part.

* [TransportServer]({{<relref "configuration/transportserver-resource">}})
* [GlobalConfiguration]({{<relref "configuration/global-configuration/globalconfiguration-resource">}})
* [Policy]({{<relref "configuration/policy-resource">}})

### Configuring SSL Termination and HTTP Path-Based Routing

> The following two code examples correspond to a Kubernetes Ingress Resource and an [NGINX VirtualServer Resource]({{<relref "configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources">}}). Although the syntax and indentation is different, they accomplish the same basic Ingress functions, used for SSL termination and Layer 7 path-based routing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following two code examples correspond to a Kubernetes Ingress Resource and an [NGINX VirtualServer Resource]({{<relref "configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources">}}). Although the syntax and indentation differ, they accomplish the same basic Ingress functions, used for SSL termination and Layer 7 path-based routing.
```

**Kubernetes Ingress Resource**
```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: nginx-test
spec:
  tls:
    - hosts:
      - foo.bar.com
      secretName: tls-secret
  rules:
    - host: foo.bar.com
      http:
        paths:
        - path: /login
          backend:
            serviceName: login-svc
            servicePort: 80
        - path: /billing
            serviceName: billing-svc
            servicePort: 80
```

**NGINX VirtualServer Resource**
```yaml
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: VirtualServer
metadata:
  name: nginx-test
spec:
  host: foo.bar.com
  tls:
    secret: tls-secret
  upstreams:
    - name: login
      service: login-svc
      port: 80
    - name: billing
      service: billing-svc
      port: 80
  routes:
  - path: /login
    action:
      pass: login
  - path: /billing
    action:
      pass: billing
```

### Configuring TCP/UDP Load Balancing and TLS Passthrough

> NGINX Ingress Controller exposes TCP and UDP services using [TransportServer]({{<relref "configuration/transportserver-resource">}}) and [GlobalConfiguration]({{<relref "configuration/global-configuration/globalconfiguration-resource">}}) resources together. These provide a broad range of options for TCP/UDP and TLS Passthrough load balancing: the community Ingress-NGINX Controller exploses these services solely using a Kubernetes ConfigMap object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NGINX Ingress Controller exposes TCP and UDP services using [TransportServer]({{<relref "configuration/transportserver-resource">}}) and [GlobalConfiguration]({{<relref "configuration/global-configuration/globalconfiguration-resource">}}) resources together. These provide a broad range of options for TCP/UDP and TLS Passthrough load balancing: the community Ingress-NGINX Controller exposes these services solely using a Kubernetes ConfigMap object.
```

> NGINX Ingress Controller exposes TCP and UDP services using [TransportServer]({{<relref "configuration/transportserver-resource">}}) and [GlobalConfiguration]({{<relref "configuration/global-configuration/globalconfiguration-resource">}}) resources together. These provide a broad range of options for TCP/UDP and TLS Passthrough load balancing: the community Ingress-NGINX Controller exploses these services solely using a Kubernetes ConfigMap object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NGINX Ingress Controller exposes TCP and UDP services using [TransportServer]({{<relref "configuration/transportserver-resource">}}) and [GlobalConfiguration]({{<relref "configuration/global-configuration/globalconfiguration-resource">}}) resources. These resources provide a broad range of options for TCP/UDP and TLS Passthrough load balancing. By contrast, the community Ingress-NGINX Controller exposes TCP/UDP services by using a Kubernetes ConfigMap object.
```

---

### Convert Ingress-NGINX Controller Annotations to NGINX Ingress Resources

> Kubernetes deployments often need to extend basic Ingress rules for advanced use cases such as canary and blue-green deployments, traffic throttling and ingress-egress traffic maniuplation. The community Ingress-NGINX Controller implements many of these using Kubernetes annotations with custom Lua extensions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubernetes deployments often need to extend basic Ingress rules for advanced use cases such as canary and blue-green deployments, traffic throttling, and ingress-egress traffic manipulation. The community Ingress-NGINX Controller implements many of these using Kubernetes annotations with custom Lua extensions.
```

Reviewer: Use the Oxford comma with lists.

> Kubernetes deployments often need to extend basic Ingress rules for advanced use cases such as canary and blue-green deployments, traffic throttling and ingress-egress traffic maniuplation. The community Ingress-NGINX Controller implements many of these using Kubernetes annotations with custom Lua extensions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes deployments often need to extend basic Ingress rules for advanced use cases such as canary and blue-green deployments, traffic throttling, and ingress-egress traffic manipulation. The community Ingress-NGINX Controller implements many of these using Kubernetes annotations with custom Lua extensions.
```

> These custom Lua extensions are intended for specific NGINX Ingress resource definitions and may not be as granular as required for advanced use cases as a result. The following examples show how to convert these annotations into NGINX Ingress Controller Resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These custom Lua extensions are intended for specific NGINX Ingress resource definitions and may not be as granular as required for advanced use cases. The following examples show how to convert these annotations into NGINX Ingress Controller Resources.
```

---

#### Canary Deployments

> Canary and blue-green deployments allow you to push code changes to production environments without disrupting existing users. NGINX Ingress Controller executes them on the data plane: to migrate from the community Ingress-NGINX Controller, you must map the latters' annotations to [VirtualServer and VirtualServerRoute resources]({{<relref "configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources">}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Canary and blue-green deployments allow you to push code changes to production environments without disrupting existing users. NGINX Ingress Controller runs them on the data plane: to migrate from the community Ingress-NGINX Controller, you must map the latter's annotations to [VirtualServer and VirtualServerRoute resources]({{<relref "configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources">}}).
```

Reviewer: The style guide says not to use "execute" -- for geopolitical reasons.

These code blocks show how the Ingress-NGINX annotations correspond to NGINX Ingress Controller [VirtualServer and VirtualServerRoute resources]({{<relref "configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources">}}).

**Ingress-NGINX Controller**
```yaml
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/enable-cors: "true"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/cors-allow-credentials: "true"

nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/cors-allow-headers: "X-Forwarded-For"

nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/cors-allow-methods: "PUT, GET, POST, OPTIONS"

nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/cors-allow-origin: "*"

nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/cors-max-age: "seconds"
```

**NGINX Ingress Controller**
```yaml
responseHeaders:
  add:
    - name: Access-Control-Allow-Credentials
      value: "true"
    - name: Access-Control-Allow-Headers
      value: "X-Forwarded-For"
    - name: Access-Control-Allow-Methods
      value: "PUT, GET, POST, OPTIONS"
    - name: Access-Control-Allow-Origin
      value: "*"
    - name: Access-Control-Max-Age
      value: "seconds"
```

---

#### Proxying and Load Balancing

> NGINX Ingress Controller has multiple proxy and load balancing functionalities you may wish to configure based on use case, such as configuring the load balancing algorithm and the timeout and buffering settings for proxied connections.

Reviewer: F5 style guide says not to use "wish"

<img width="625" alt="image" src="https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/assets/33876974/2301c065-0197-4d19-bc78-b4d76d6bf188">

https://docs.f5net.com/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=GSASKF5&title=F5+Technical+Style+Guide

> This table shows how Ingress-NGINX Controller annotations map to statements in the upstream field for [VirtualServer and VirtualServerRoute resources]({{<relref "configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources">}}), covering load balancing, proxy timeoutx, proxy buffering and connection routing for a services' ClusterIP address and port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This table shows how Ingress-NGINX Controller annotations map to statements in the upstream field for [VirtualServer and VirtualServerRoute resources]({{<relref "configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources">}}), covering load balancing, proxy timeout, proxy buffering and connection routing for a services' ClusterIP address and port.
```

Reviewer: Make sure to spell check.

{{< bootstrap-table "table table-bordered table-striped table-responsive" >}}
| Ingress-NGINX Controller | NGINX Ingress Controller |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------ |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/load-balance | lb-method |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-buffering | buffering |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-buffers-number | buffers |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-buffer-size| buffers |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-connect-timeout | connect-timeout |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-next-upstream | next-upstream |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-next-upstream-timeout | next-upstream-timeout |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-read-timeout | read-timeout |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/proxy-send-timeout | send-timeout |
| nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/service-upstream | use-cluster-ip |
{{% /bootstrap-table %}}

#### mTLS Authentication

mTLS authentication is a way of enforcing mutual authentication on traffic entering and exiting a cluster (north-sourth traffic). This secure form of communication is common within a service mesh, commonly used in strict zero-trust environments.

> The NGINX Ingress Controller layer can handle mTLS authentication for end systems through the presentation of valid certificates for external connections. It accomplishes this through [Policy]({{<relref "configuration/policy-resource">}}) resources, which correspond to Ingress-NGINX Controller annotations for [client certificate authentication](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#client-certificate-authentication) and [backend certificate authentication](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#backend-certificate-authentication).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NGINX Ingress Controller layer can handle mTLS authentication for end systems through the presentation of valid certificates for external connections. It accomplishes this through [Policy]({{<relref "configuration/policy-resource">}}) resources, which correspond to Ingress-NGINX Controller annotations for [client certificate authentication](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#client-certificate-authentication) and [backend certificate authentication](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#backend-certificate-authentication).
```

Reviewer: Don't use articles w/ product names.

**Ingress-NGINX Controller**
```yaml
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/affinity: "cookie"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/session-cookie-name: "cookieName"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/session-cookie-expires: "x"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/session-cookie-path: "/route"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/session-cookie-secure: "true"
```

**NGINX Ingress Controller**
```yaml
sessionCookie:
  enable: true

  name: cookieName

  expires: xh

  path: /route

  secure: true
```

## Migration with Kubernetes Ingress Resources
The other option for migrating from the community Ingress-NGINX Controller to NGINX Ingress Controller is using only [annotations](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/annotations/) and [ConfigMaps](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/configuration/configmap/) from standard Kubernetes resources, potentially relying on [mergeable Ingress types](https://github.com/nginxinc/kubernetes-ingress/tree/main/examples/ingress-resources/mergeable-ingress-types).

This ensures that all configuration is kept in the Ingress object.

{{< warning >}}

> Do not alter the `spec` field of the Ingress resource when taking this option.

Reviewer: Why? It might be helpful for a warning to explain the consequences -- could help w/ troubleshooting.

Author: I have no idea why, but I'll ask Jason Williams later - I suspect changing the spec fields breaks the resource's ability to parse other parameters.

Reviewer: A warning is the highest level of caution, intended for issues that could lead to data loss or hardware failure. We need to specify the risks to keep users informed. If the consequences are unclear, perhaps this shouldn't be labeled as a warning.

{{< /warning >}}

### Advanced Configuration with Annotations
This table maps the Ingress-NGINX Controller annotations to NGINX Ingress Controller's equivalent annotations, and the respective NGINX Directive.

{{< bootstrap-table "table table-bordered table-striped table-responsive" >}}
| Ingress-NGINX Controller | NGINX Ingress Controller | NGINX Directive |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------ | --------------- |

> | [`nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/configuration-snippet`](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#configuration-snippet) | [`nginx.org/location-snippets`](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-annotations/#snippets-and-custom-templates) | N/A |

Reviewer: Do these need to be formatted as in-line code or perhaps bold or italic? I know we've gone back and forth on this. We should decide.

Author: I've formatted these all as in-line code to march the original blog post.

https://www.nginx.com/blog/migrating-from-community-ingress-controller-to-f5-nginx-ingress-controller/

Reviewer: The blog post isn't a style guide. I raised the issue in Slack so we have consensus.

Reviewer: The table on Proxying and Load Balancing doesn't use in-line code for parameters, making it inconsistent with other tables in the same document. This inconsistency is hard to miss.

| [`nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/server-snippet`](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#server-snippet)| [`nginx.org/server-snippets`](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-annotations/#snippets-and-custom-templates) | N/A |
| [`nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect`](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/annotations/#server-side-https-enforcement-through-redirect) | [`ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-redirect`](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-annotations/#auth-and-ssltls) | N/A (2) |
{{% /bootstrap-table %}}

1. Ingress-NGINX Controller implements some of its load balancing algorithms with Lua, which may not have an equivalent in NGINX Ingress Controller.

> 1. To redirecting HTTP (80) traffic to HTTPS (443) NGINX Ingress Controller uses native NGINX `if` conditions while Ingress-NGINX Controller uses Lua.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To redirect HTTP (80) traffic to HTTPS (443), NGINX Ingress Controller uses native NGINX `if` conditions while Ingress-NGINX Controller uses Lua.
```

> The following two snippets outline what Ingress-NGINX Controller annotations correspond to annotations for NGINX Ingress Controller with NGINX Plus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following two snippets outline Ingress-NGINX Controller annotations that correspond to annotations for NGINX Ingress Controller with NGINX Plus.
```

**Ingress-NGINX Controller**
```yaml
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/affinity: "cookie"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/session-cookie-name: "cookie_name"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/session-cookie-expires: "seconds"
nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/session-cookie-path: "/route"
```

**NGINX Ingress Controller (with NGINX Plus)**
```yaml
nginx.com/sticky-cookie-services: "serviceName=example-svc cookie_name expires=time path=/route"
```

{{< note >}}

> The NGINX Ingress Controller has additional annotations for features using NGINX Plus which have no Ingress-NGINX Controller equivalent, such as active health checks and authentication using JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NGINX Ingress Controller has additional annotations for features using NGINX Plus that have no Ingress-NGINX Controller equivalent, such as active health checks and authentication using JSON Web Tokens (JWTs).
```

{{< /note >}}

### Global Configuration with ConfigMaps

This table maps the Ingress-NGINX Controller ConfigMap keys to NGINX Ingress Controller's equivalent ConfigMap keys.

<!-- {{< note >}}
Some of the key names are identical, and each Ingress Controller has ConfigMap keys that the other does not (Which are indicated).
{{< /note >}} -->

{{< bootstrap-table "table table-bordered table-striped table-responsive" >}}
| Ingress-NGINX Controller | NGINX Ingress Controller |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------ |

> | [`disable-access-log`](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/nginx-configuration/configmap/#disable-access-log) | [`access-log-off`](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/global-configuration/configmap-resource/#logging) |

Reviewer: Same question as above -- should these be formatted as in-line code or bold or italic?

Author: Same answer as above!

I've formatted these all as in-line code to march the original blog post.

https://www.nginx.com/blog/migrating-from-community-ingress-controller-to-f5-nginx-ingress-controller/

Reviewer: The blog post isn't a style guide. I think we decided on bold? I raised the issue in Slack.
